Additional Crons docs improvements (#6530)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/docs/product/crons/getting-started/cli.mdx

---
title: CLI
sidebar_order: 200
---

<Include name="beta-alert-crons.mdx" />

<Alert level="warning" title="Deprecation Notice">

Starting from v2.16.0 the Sentry CLI enables monitor check-in authorization using your project's DSN. **Monitor check-in authorization through an auth token is deprecated.** See instructions below to update your CLI to use your project's DSN.

> </Alert>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Alert level="warning" title="Deprecation Notice">

Starting from v2.16.0, the Sentry CLI enables monitor check-in authorization using your project's DSN. **The ability to monitor check-in authorization through an auth token is deprecated.** See instructions below to update your CLI and use your project's DSN.

</Alert>
```

Sentry Crons allows you to monitor the uptime and performance of any scheduled, recurring job. Once implemented, it'll allow you to get alerts and metrics to help you solve errors, detect timeouts, and prevent disruptions to your service.

## Requirements

To begin monitoring your recurring, scheduled job:

- [Install](/product/cli/installation) the Sentry CLI (min v2.16.0).
- [Create and configure](https://sentry.io/crons/create/) your first Monitor.

## Configuration

> The Sentry CLI utilizes your Monitor's project DSN to authorize check-ins. To set up, you can export the `SENTRY_DSN` environment variable:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Sentry CLI uses your Monitor's project DSN to authorize check-ins. To set it up, export the `SENTRY_DSN` environment variable:
```

```bash
export SENTRY_DSN=___PUBLIC_DSN___
```

Alternatively, you can add it to your `~/.sentryclirc` config:

```ini {filename:~/.sentryclirc}
[defaults]
auth.dsn = ___PUBLIC_DSN___
```

Learn more about the CLI's [configuration file](/product/cli/configuration#configuration-file).

## Job Monitoring

Use the Sentry CLI to run your job and notify you if it doesn't start when expected (missed) or if it exceeded its maximum runtime (failed).

```bash {tabTitle: CLI}
sentry-cli monitors run <monitor_slug> -- <command> <args>
```

Usage examples:

```bash {tabTitle: Python}

> sentry-cli monitors run my_monitor_slug -- python path/to/file.py

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
sentry-cli monitors run my-monitor-slug -- python path/to/file.py
```

```

```bash {tabTitle: Node.JS}

> sentry-cli monitors run my_monitor_slug -- node path/to/file.js

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
sentry-cli monitors run my-monitor-slug -- node path/to/file.js
```

We support `_` but prefer `-`
